V3 documentation (#261)
htcondor/htcondor-ce: docs/batch-system-integration.md

Writing Routes For HTCondor-CE
==============================

> The [JobRouter](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/5_4HTCondor_Job.html) is at the heart of HTCondor-CE and allows admins to transform and direct jobs to specific batch systems. Customizations are made in the form of job routes where each route corresponds to a separate job transformation: If an incoming job matches a job route's requirements, the route creates a transformed job (referred to as the 'routed job') that is then submitted to the batch system. The CE package comes with default routes located in `/etc/condor-ce/config.d/02-ce-*.conf` that provide enough basic functionality for a small site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [JobRouter](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/grid-computing/job-router.html) is at the heart of HTCondor-CE and allows admins to transform and direct jobs to specific batch systems. Customizations are made in the form of job routes where each route corresponds to a separate job transformation: If an incoming job matches a job route's requirements, the route creates a transformed job (referred to as the 'routed job') that is then submitted to the batch system. The CE package comes with default routes located in `/etc/condor-ce/config.d/02-ce-*.conf` that provide enough basic functionality for a small site.
```
(hard to see from the suggestion but I just changed the link to point to the new stable manual)

If you have needs beyond delegating all incoming jobs to your batch system as they are, this document provides examples of common job routes and job route problems.

!!! note "Definitions"
    - **Incoming Job**: A job which was submitted to the CE from an outside source, such as a GlideinWMS Factory.

    - **Routed Job**: A job which was transformed by the JobRouter.

    - **Batch System**: The underlying batch system that the HTCondor-CE will submit.  This can be Slurm, PBS, HTCondor, SGE, LSF,...

Quirks and Pitfalls
-------------------

-   If a value is set in [JOB\_ROUTER\_DEFAULTS](#job_router_defaults) with `eval_set_<variable>`, override it by using `eval_set_<variable>` in the `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES`. Do this at your own risk as it may cause the CE to break.
-   Make sure to run `condor_ce_reconfig` after changing your routes, otherwise they will not take effect.
-   HTCondor batch system only: Local universe jobs are excluded from any routing.

How Job Routes are Constructed
------------------------------

> Each job route’s [ClassAd](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/4_1HTCondor_s_ClassAd.html) is constructed by combining each entry from the `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES` with the `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS`. Attributes that are [set_*](#setting-attributes) in `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES` will override those [set_*](#setting-attributes) in `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each job route’s [ClassAd](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/misc-concepts/classad-mechanism.html) is constructed by combining each entry from the `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES` with the `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS`. Attributes that are [set_*](#setting-attributes) in `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES` will override those [set_*](#setting-attributes) in `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS`
```
again, just a link update

> ### JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES

Reviewer: I forget if you need to backslash the underline in headers...

Author: Just checked, doesn't look necessary

]
[
  GridResource = "batch pbs";
  TargetUniverse = 9;
  name = "Route jobs to PBS";
  Requirements = (TARGET.queue =!= "analy");
]
@jre
```

### Writing comments

To write comments you can use `#` to comment a line:

```hl_lines="5"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  TargetUniverse = 5;
  name = "# comments";
  # This is a comment
]
@jre
```

### Setting attributes for all routes

To set an attribute that will be applied to all routes, you will need to ensure that `MERGE_JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULT_ADS` is set to `True` (check the value with [condor\_ce\_config\_val](troubleshoot-htcondor-ce#condor_ce_config_val)) and use the [set_](#setting-attributes) function in the `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS`. The following configuration sets the `Periodic_Hold` attribute for all routes:

```hl_lines="7"
# Use the defaults generated by the condor_ce_router_defaults script.  To add
# additional defaults, add additional lines of the form:
#
#   JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS = $(JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS) [set_foo = 1;]
#
MERGE_JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULT_ADS=True
JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS = $(JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS) [set_Periodic_Hold = (NumJobStarts >= 1 && JobStatus == 1) || NumJobStarts > 1;]
```

### Filtering jobs based on…

> To filter jobs, use the `Requirements` attribute. Jobs will evaluate against the ClassAd expression set in the `Requirements` and if the expression evaluates to `TRUE`, the route will match. More information on the syntax of ClassAd's can be found in the [HTCondor manual](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/4_1HTCondor_s_ClassAd.html). For an example on how incoming jobs interact with filtering in job routes, consult [this document](/compute-element/submit-htcondor-ce).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To filter jobs, use the `Requirements` attribute. Jobs will evaluate against the ClassAd expression set in the `Requirements` and if the expression evaluates to `TRUE`, the route will match. More information on the syntax of ClassAd's can be found in the [HTCondor manual](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/misc-concepts/classad-mechanism.html). For an example on how incoming jobs interact with filtering in job routes, consult [this document](/compute-element/submit-htcondor-ce).
```

When setting requirements, you need to prefix job attributes that you are filtering with `TARGET.` so that the job route knows to compare the attribute of the incoming job rather than the route’s own attribute. For example, if an incoming job has a `queue = "analy"` attribute, then the following job route will not match:

```hl_lines="6"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  TargetUniverse = 5;
  name = "Filtering by queue";
  queue = "not-analy";
  Requirements = (queue =?= "analy");
]
@jre
```

> This is because when evaluating the route requirement, the job route will compare its own `queue` attribute to "analy" and see that it does not match. You can read more about comparing two ClassAds in the [HTCondor manual](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/4_1HTCondor_s_ClassAd.html#SECTION00513300000000000000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because when evaluating the route requirement, the job route will compare its own `queue` attribute to "analy" and see that it does not match. You can read more about comparing two ClassAds in the [HTCondor manual](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/misc-concepts/classad-mechanism.html#old-classad-operators).
```

```hl_lines="7"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  GridResource = "batch pbs";
  TargetUniverse = 9;
  name = "Setting WallTime";
  # Set the max walltime to 1 hr
  set_default_maxWallTime = 60;
]
@jre
```

### Editing attributes…

The following functions are operations that affect job attributes and are evaluated in the following order:

1.  `copy_*`
2.  `delete_*`
3.  `set_*`
4.  `eval_set_*`

After each job route’s ClassAd is [constructed](#how-job-routes-are-constructed), the above operations are evaluated in order. For example, if the attribute `foo` is set using `eval_set_foo` in the `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS`, you'll be unable to use `delete_foo` to remove it from your jobs since the attribute is set using `eval_set_foo` after the deletion occurs according to the order of operations. To get around this, we can take advantage of the fact that operations defined in `JOB_ROUTER_DEFAULTS` get overridden by the same operation in `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES`. So to 'delete' `foo`, we would add `eval_set_foo = ""` to the route in the `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES`, resulting in `foo` being absent from the routed job.

> More documentation can be found in the [HTCondor manual](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/5_4HTCondor_Job.html#SECTION00644000000000000000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More documentation can be found in the [HTCondor manual](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/grid-computing/job-router.html#routing-table-entry-classad-attributes).
```

  name = "Copying attributes";
  delete_environment = True;
]
@jre
```

#### Setting attributes

To set an attribute on the routed job, use `set_`. The following route sets the Job's `Rank` attribute to 5:

```hl_lines="6"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  GridResource = "batch pbs";
  TargetUniverse = 9;
  name = "Setting an attribute";
  set_Rank = 5;
]
@jre
```

#### Setting attributes with ClassAd expressions

To set an attribute to a ClassAd expression to be evaluated, use `eval_set`. The following route sets the `Experiment` attribute to `atlas.osguser` if the Owner of the incoming job is `osguser`:

!!! note
    If a value is set in JOB\_ROUTER\_DEFAULTS with `eval_set_<variable>`, override it by using `eval_set_<variable>` in the `JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES`.

```hl_lines="6"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  GridResource = "batch pbs";
  TargetUniverse = 9;
  name = "Setting an attribute with a !ClassAd expression";
  eval_set_Experiment = strcat("atlas.", Owner);
]
@jre
```

### Limiting the number of jobs

This section outlines how to limit the number of total or idle jobs in a specific route (i.e., if this limit is reached, jobs will no longer be placed in this route).

!!! note

>     If you are using an HTCondor batch system, limiting the number of jobs is not the preferred solution: HTCondor manages fair share on its own via [user priorities and group accounting](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/3_6User_Priorities.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are using an HTCondor batch system, limiting the number of jobs is not the preferred solution: HTCondor manages fair share on its own via [user priorities and group accounting](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/admin-manual/user-priorities-negotiation.html).
```

#### Total jobs

> To set a limit on the number of jobs for a specific route, set the [MaxJobs](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/5_4HTCondor_Job.html#57134) attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set a limit on the number of jobs for a specific route, set the [MaxJobs](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/grid-computing/job-router.html#routing-table-entry-classad-attributes) attribute:
```

```hl_lines="6 12"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  GridResource = "batch pbs";
  TargetUniverse = 9;
  name = "Limit the total number of jobs to 100";
  MaxJobs = 100;
]
[
  GridResource = "batch pbs";
  TargetUniverse = 9;
  name = "Limit the total number of jobs to 75";
  MaxJobs = 75;
]
@jre
```

#### Idle jobs

> To set a limit on the number of idle jobs for a specific route, set the [MaxIdleJobs](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/5_4HTCondor_Job.html#57135) attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set a limit on the number of idle jobs for a specific route, set the [MaxIdleJobs](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/grid-computing/job-router.html#routing-table-entry-classad-attributes) attribute:
```

In this example, we set the routed job on hold if the job is idle and has been started at least once or if the job has tried to start more than once.  This will catch jobs which are starting and stopping multiple times.

```hl_lines="6 10"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre
[
  TargetUniverse = 5;
  name = "Setting periodic statements";
  # Puts the routed job on hold if the job's been idle and has been started at least once or if the job has tried to start more than once
  set_Periodic_Hold = (NumJobStarts >= 1 && JobStatus == 1) || NumJobStarts > 1;
  # Remove routed jobs if their walltime is longer than 3 days and 5 minutes
  set_Periodic_Remove = ( RemoteWallClockTime > (3*24*60*60 + 5*60) );
  # Release routed jobs if the condor_starter couldn't start the executable and 'VMGAHP_ERR_INTERNAL' is in the HoldReason
  set_Periodic_Release = HoldReasonCode == 6 && regexp("VMGAHP_ERR_INTERNAL", HoldReason);
]
@jre
```

### Setting routed job requirements

> If you need to set requirements on your routed job, you will need to use `set_Requirements` instead of `Requirements`. The `Requirements` attribute filters jobs coming into your CE into different job routes whereas `set_Requirements` will set conditions on the routed job that must be met by the worker node it lands on. For more information on requirements, consult the [HTCondor manual](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/2_5Submitting_Job.html#SECTION00357000000000000000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to set requirements on your routed job, you will need to use `set_Requirements` instead of `Requirements`. The `Requirements` attribute filters jobs coming into your CE into different job routes whereas `set_Requirements` will set conditions on the routed job that must be met by the worker node it lands on. For more information on requirements, consult the [HTCondor manual](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/users-manual/submitting-a-job.html#about-requirements-and-rank).
```

```hl_lines="5"
JOB_ROUTER_ENTRIES @=jre [
     GridResource = "batch pbs";
     TargetUniverse = 9;
     name = "Setting job submit variables";
     set_default_remote_cerequirements = strcat("Walltime == 3600 && AccountingGroup =="", x509UserProxyFirstFQAN, "\"");
]
@jre
```

With `/etc/blahp/pbs_local_submit_attributes.sh` containing.

```
#!/bin/bash
echo "#PBS -l walltime=$Walltime"
echo "#PBS -A $AccountingGroup"
```

This results in the following being appended to the script that gets submitted to your batch system:

```
#PBS -l walltime=3600
#PBS -A <CE job's x509UserProxyFirstFQAN attribute>
```

Getting Help
------------

If you have any questions or issues with configuring job routes, please [contact us](/#contact-us) for assistance.

Reference
---------

Here are some example HTCondor-CE job routes:

### AGLT2's job routes ###

Atlas AGLT2 is using an HTCondor batch system. Here are some things to note about their routes.

> -   Setting various HTCondor-specific attributes like `Rank`, `AccountingGroup`, `JobPrio` and `Periodic_Remove` (see the [HTCondor manual](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/htcondor/manual/v8.6/12_Appendix_A.html) for more). Some of these are site-specific like `LastandFrac`, `IdleMP8Pressure`, `localQue`, `IsAnalyJob` and `JobMemoryLimit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Setting various HTCondor-specific attributes like `Rank`, `AccountingGroup`, `JobPrio` and `Periodic_Remove` (see the [HTCondor manual](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/stable/classad-attributes/index.html) for more). Some of these are site-specific like `LastandFrac`, `IdleMP8Pressure`, `localQue`, `IsAnalyJob` and `JobMemoryLimit`.
```
